# Blockchains for Business: From Huh to Hype to Meh
**[Casey Kuhlman, Monax - Hyperledger Global Forum](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YPuZM1KEZI8)**

<img src="https://i.imgur.com/MtZ7Lal.png"/>

>This talk focuses on the history of blockchains in a business context as lived and told by the CEO of the first company to build a permissioned, smart contract compatible blockchain codebase (the codebase currently known as Hyperledger Burrow).

>There are three phases to the talk and a predominant lesson for the future of blockchain network implementations will be gleaned from each phase. In the first phase the talk will focus on the early days -- when the community of businesses seeking to utilize blockchains were vanishingly small. This phase, known as the \`huh?` phase was formative for where the technology currently is. The second phase of the talk will focus on the hype driven buzz phase of the technology which drove a huge amount of top down activity. Finally, the third phase of the talk will focus on the phase the technology is just entering where all the software folks get to work.

<img src="https://i.imgur.com/LG2UjZI.png"/>

welcome everybody is everybody having a good conference? good. so this talk is step back from other talks that I've been that I've given here with more of a technical band and this is.. 

This talk is structured to take a look at essentially how we got here, and where I, at least, think we're going. So this is was on the business side track for a reason. It's more a summary of the last few years of our company, and our life why is that interesting? 

My company, Monax used to be known as Eris Industries, we were the first to market with a permissionable blockchain. We were the first to market with scalable packages of solidity based smart contracts. We're maintainers of Hyperledger Burrow, and we're one of the founders of a network
called the [Agreements Network](https://agreements.network/). 

So we've been playing this game of "blockchains for business" for quite a few years now and so I wanted to kind of think
through how the last four years have
gone and what what we have gone through
and what at least we have learned along
the way when this all started for us was
2014 at that time the idea of leveraging
blockchain technology as an enabler for
businesses made no sense to anybody and
so this is the the beginning phase I
like to call the huh face what are you
even talking about with this technology
and in the early days when we when we
first started we would we would have a
lot of meanings and those meanings were
very very costly and I remember in early
2015 one of the companies that's quite
big in the space at this point they told
us you guys are
the most arrogant startup in the whole
in the whole ecosystem and I was
confused by that comment because I don't
think of myself as an arrogant person
and I said well why and they said well
you won't do work for the banks for free
which was apparently why why we were
very arrogant that didn't actually make
a lot of sense to me because at the time
our operating expenditures were being
spent probably on the order of ninety
five percent of our operating
expenditures were being spilled spent
built building open source software so
from my perspective we were doing a heck
of a lot of work for the banks for free
and this phase was very Bank focused in
the very early days of using of this
technology banks were were quite
interested and but they didn't really
know why they were interested and the
most of 2015 was really about education
and at that time what we had Mon X have
been working on was an open source block
gen client and a developer tool we
called Aris at that time and before we
got sued by Aris exchange and had to
lose the name and this open source tool
was essentially a docker composed like
tool that made it easy for developers to
build things on their laptop and all of
that was open source software and that
really helped as an educational tool in
getting the ideas of what this
technology was about out into the market
it made it a little bit easier for folks
to work with the technology and so that
was effective to a degree in terms of
education but what the whole ecosystem
struggled with in in these days was
really about the value proposition
and in in this timeframe a lot of the
questions that we would get and others
in the ecosystem they would say the
questions would be well what is this for
what is what are the use cases for this
and and there was a lot of discovery
that was happening little proof of
concept top it just started to come up
and and just started to be a thing in
2015 basically but no one in the
ecosystem including us maybe especially
us because I'm a rather long-winded
person was really able to find a core
value proposition and this still is one
of my biggest concerns with the
blockchain technology community I often
say if you ask 10 blockchain errs what's
the value proposition of your technology
you'll get at least eight answers some
of many of those will conflict with one
another but in this very very early
phase even though it was quite a small
community at that time no one really
knew how to describe what we were doing
in a way that made any sense to anybody
and and as we fast forwarded over the
course of 2015 more banks started doing
more percival concept and it became a
little bit easier and clearer to say how
do block chains fit into the technology
ecosystem writ large and and that moved
us into about the middle of 2016 I would
say which was when we really moved into
the second phase of this three phase
outline that I've laid up here at least
and this was the height phase so I don't
know if it kicked it off I don't know if
blockchains exclamation point being on
the cover of The Economist was the thing
that absolutely kicked off the phase 2
hype cycle but it was certainly a icon
in my mind
or for this time and and this time or
this phase the biggest problem that we
had was that it was incredibly easy to
get distracted I would get emails or or
my business development team would get
emails and they would essentially read
like this our board hi I'm the
innovation manager of company X my board
has asked my CEO what our blockchain
strategy is and we don't know anything
about what blockchain means can you come
talk to us and tell us what blockchain
means for our business and pretty much
any of us that had startups at this time
would get those emails constantly and I
called I took to calling those the block
saying block time blockchain blockchain
exclamation point emails because
everybody was thinking oh we need to do
block panes we need to do block chains
but still it wasn't really well founded
within the ecosystem what is this
technology what can it do for us what
does it not do for us and how does it
fit in again to the the ecosystem in in
this phase you started to see a range of
consortiums get spun up including this
one including the etherium Enterprise
Alliance including our three and a
number of other consortiums
and the typical answer that large
companies were giving about what is our
blockchain strategy is that they would
say we've joined this consortium that's
our blockchain strategy for now which is
a very viable answer for a big company
to give but it doesn't actually really
address what does this technology mean
for our business if if anything and the
the second really sort of piece of this
that we started to see
come online during the hype cycle is an
increased focus on developer tools and
in in the earlier phases when I would
tell folks that we really identified as
a developer tools company they would
look at me like I was crazy because at
that time everybody was really in the
consulting game rather than in the tool
game and and where we are now a lot of
people are very very interested in
tooling and rightly so because it
actually matters a lot developer tools
but but we were one of the very few
companies that was really trying our
best to make this technology simple
enough that developer with a laptop can
spin up a use case in a relatively
limited amount of time and and this was
a phase where other companies started to
come on board and that whole discussion
became a lot easier truffle was spun up
from the etherium community composer was
spun up from the fabric community and
these tools along with other tools made
it much more simple for folks that were
interested in this technology and
curious about it to be able to actually
do something and and then the third
piece of this is what was happening on
the open-source side and the at this
time things were very very chaotic hyper
ledger was really just getting spun up
and and as it was getting spun up it
took some time to get its wheels
underneath it the public blockchain side
of things was incredibly chaotic as well
and and folks were from both sides of
this community folks were trying to
understand not only how does this
technology fit into my business what is
my own selfish business interest what is
my own ecosystems in interest in this
technology but then also how do I
actually collaborate
because at this time there's a lot of
attention being drove driven towards the
technology but there is not yet an
increased understanding of how does this
actually fit into me into sari into my
business and and and this is when really
started a kind of an existential crisis
started to come up and around this
technology how do we use this thing what
does this mean for my business why are
you telling me that I need to share data
at all and these questions oftentimes
had no this isn't my laptop so I don't
know the password to turn it back on a
lot of questions were being asked that
really frankly very few people had the
answers to oftentimes the reason for why
people didn't have an answer was because
the use case was probably not very good
at all and and as we are now sort of in
the later phases I would say of the hype
cycle and moving more towards the the
third phase I think we're in a really
strong position as a community because
now we've overcome a lot of the things
that you need to overcome for this
technology to really shine from an
education perspective it's relatively
clear a pathway for what this technology
is there's a range of materials that
somebody that is curious about this
technology can go and read if they are a
reader there's a range of tools that
a developer that might be curious about
this technology can go download and
build something very quickly there's a
range of tutorials across many
frameworks and many tools that make it
easy for curious developers to get on
the initial points of potential
contributor path or a maintainer path
down the road and then finally we're
we're kind of at the point now from an
use case and value proposition
perspective where it's relatively
straightforward for most people to
answer questions around
why are you block painting what is the
value proposition of this technology and
why does it make sense within a
particular use case we have use cases
that are in production now very early
production but production nonetheless
those stories are getting told and that
creates a visual image for folks as to
how they might be able to apply this
technology to to their business and and
those are the in my opinion the three
crucial pieces that needed to happen
before we could go in to probably what
will be the a moneymaker for software
companies rather than a moneymaker for
event operator companies and that will
be the math phase about six months ago
someone told me that the only way to
make money and block change is to run
conferences and I'll be I'll be really
glad when we get beyond that face so
where are we going here I call this the
may fit a phase for a reason i I've
always said and felt that this is really
low-level infrastructure technology they
did not deserve to be on the cover of
The Economist
because it's going to fade into the
background
this is a data management solution that
runs across company firewalls okay great
it solves a lot of problems that
companies have in terms of coordination
great but and and while it's fine then
we had to go through a hype cycle it it
really isn't that productive to actually
getting things done because it adds more
distraction then it actually
accomplishes and so where do I think
we're going well I think we will we're
going in a direction where blockchain
technology will be used extensively
across a range of use cases that
basically boil down to pain points
currently of coordinating across company
firewalls and the second piece of that
is that I don't think anybody's gonna
care operators will care developers will
care systems builders will care CIOs
will care
but basically outside of that I think
the block chains will just become a
thing that we use and it won't become
something that desires to have a
conference every every week and the
other thing that that needs to happen
and this is sort of the last piece of
the puzzle for me is user experiences
across both the enterprise side of the
game and the cryptocurrency side of the
game absolutely have to improve and and
this is the biggest challenge I think
that we are facing as we move through
2019 into 2020 because using this
technology is currently much harder than
then users are used to dealing with
particularly there's particularity sorry
around key management and normally users
don't really know how to use their keys
blockchains are based on this idea of
cryptographic identity as running
through a public/private key pair
typically and and there's a range of
other user experiences these these
systems are slow
they they take a while to finalize
depending on what what system you're
actually using and there's a range of
other things that don't really matter
equally to how users are used to going
to a SAS platform or to a to a database
administration platform or some other
platform that they might use in their
daily business existence those systems
if they move to block chains have to
address a really fundamental issues
around user experience and we have to
keep improving developer experience for
developers the while the developer
experience has come a long way as a
maintainer of a hyper ledger fabric I
sorry as a maintainer of a hyper ledger
framework we we have noted that it is
the the amount of people that you can
really onboard onto a contributor and
maintainer pathway is is vanishingly
small and if this technology is really
going to shine it needs to be much more
addressable bye-bye in increased numbers
of developers and then the final thing
that is something that we've been
working on for quite a few years in
various flavors of this is that public
permission private I think that they
will all connect to one another and it
will all of these things will be on a
spectrum for a lot of the history of
this technology to date various sides of
this community have taken strong
positions and in opposition to one
another and essentially have said you
know the cryptocurrency and the
enterprise side of this game are apples
and oranges these are completely
different things they have nothing to
learn from one another there's nothing
that they can actually
contribute to one another and I think
that as we see more public permission
networks come online as we see business
networks that are built on hyper ledger
or other enterprise grade technologies a
bloom to a much bigger spectrum than
they currently are that we are going to
start to see a real merging and much
greater increase of cross-pollination
across around these systems and and this
is one of the things that I'm very much
looking forward to not only
cross-pollination of ideas but also
cross-pollination of blockchain based
data and one of the things that we're
very interested in working on and we
will be working on over 2019 is the
ability to have smaller networks that
are then programmatically able to move
data and information on a smart contract
to smart contract basis across bridges
of various various block chains and and
when we're able to start connecting in
block chains to one another whether
those are more closed block chains or
more public block chains then I think we
actually at that point start to get to
something that looks like the the
Internet and people have historically
claimed that public blockchain
technologies are like the internet
because they're they're permissionless
and I've always pushed back on that
because it's never really made any sense
to me how you can compare something that
has a state and history to a routing
layer and that is essentially a network
of tubes and what I think of and the
other piece of it that's never really
made much sense to me is that the way
that we use the Internet today is that
it's essentially a routing layer on top
of extra nets
that that run SAS platforms or other
platforms behind within clusters that
are managed as extra nets and and so
this idea of public internet routing on
top of extra nets is at least from my
perspective sort of the reality of what
the public internet is and when we're
able to connect block chains into one
another and programmatically move and
route information across and between via
smart contract to smart contract API
calls then I think we're going to be in
the land of having something
approximating that so that's where I
think this this ecosystem is going those
are the three things that we at least
that modaks
are focused on moving towards and that
concludes my talk any questions if you
think of the world wide web being built
on web servers and web pages browsers
and HTTP requests those four items what
are the parallel items we'll see in the
new world that's a great question
III think that I think that it sort of
depends on what you think needs to move
across the boundaries what do we need to
route certainly one thing that we will
need to route in a world of
interconnected block chains is
authenticated packets of information and
and then assets and and I think of those
two even though probably at a technical
level they would end up being collapsing
on one another
you would fundamentally treat them very
differently in terms of how that bridge
operates because if you're trying to
essentially move an asset from one
domain to another domain
that has a lot more complexity than I'm
just sending a signal over a bridge but
I think those are the basically be the
two things that will happen at the
routing layer anybody else I had a
question what's your in the POC churned
land of doom I think I was around for it
with you for a bit
what's your favorite favorite unmade
movie the one that never like actually
got made either from Harris or anyone
else you've got a pic I think there
would be a pretty boring movie because
it would be just a bunch of developers
sinning in innovation labs but but I
think that the funnier plot of the movie
would would really focus on the the
insane
difference between how innovation teams
in big companies operate and how
startups operate and the really wide
Delta between those those two and I
think that would be the main plotline of
the of the comedy of it would really
have to focus on that and you know
innovation teams are in an interesting
position because they work with startups
all the time but are still very
constrained by the bureaucracy and the
context in which they find themselves
and and so they sort of sit at this kind
of quasi middle space between the two
and the number of times that an
innovation manager has looked at me and
just roll his eyes and say look we got
to do it this way is as many and so I
think that would be probably the the
most comedic thread that I could find
thank you for coming everybody
[Applause]